CSC151 2010S, Class 02: Course Planning
=======================================

_Overview_

* About the alums.
* Choosing hosts.
* Admin.
* About the course (revisited).
* A strategy for hosting alums.
* Other course details.
* Resume review.

_Admin_

* I don't seem to have received paragraphs on Dr. Wittie from all of you.  
  Please send them ASAP.
* Please encourage your friends to come to these talks, even if they 
  don't register.
* For folks who visit in person, I may try to set up dinners.  Hosts
  will be expected to try to get a list of interested students.
* Sorry for disorganization.  A large and unexpected administrative task
  hit two weeks before classes started, took me about 40 hours, and I'm
  still not caught up.
* I'm working to get my notes on Lea Wittie's visit into an EBoard.
  (I need to check them over and have her approve them.)
* Tomorrow's CS Table: Turing on AI
* Next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.: Art and Technology talk in JRC 101.
* Next Thursday's CS Extra (tentative): Matt Atherton '95.

About the course (revisited)
----------------------------

Goals

* Goal one: Give CS students a view of what is available to computer
  science students
* Goal two: Give focused advice on things like resumes and the job hunt
* Goal three: Network

Format

* Weekly alumni visits
  * Some in person (+ chances to talk outside of class)
  * Many via Skype
* Hosted by students (in and outside of the class)

Work

* Show up
* Host when you volunteered (or were volunteered)
* Send a followup after hosting
* Write a reflective paragraph
* Ask good questions

Optional (but good)

* If the alum says something interesting or does something that you're
  interested in, send a followup email to the alum, whether or not you hosted

About the alums
---------------

Ian Lunderskov '08 [Sept 12]

* Chicagoland, Ruby stuff
* Consulting
* Varied path
* In person
* Hosts: Khoa and Kuestin

Sam Tape '09 [Sept. 19]

* Online solutions for emergency health care, Minn./St. Paul
* The "SAT for Health Care Professionals"
* In person
* [Walker students here]
* Hosts: Chike and Erik

Jordan Shkolnick '11 (uncomfirmed) [Sept. 26]

* Microsoft, Testing
* Hosts: Martin and Chike

Tony Stubblebine '00 [Oct. 10]

* Long and varied career
* Currently at Lift
* Hosts: Martin and Khoa

Eryn O'Neill '07 [Oct. 17]

* Outspoken, wants Grinnell CS to think more broadly about jobs
* In person
* Hosts: Dilan and Chike
* [Walker students here]

Jim Finnessey '04 [Oct. 31]

* Mid-level manager 
* Hosts: Martin and Kuestin

Shitanshu Aggarwal '11 [Nov. 7] 

* Amazon
* Hosts: Erik and Jennelle

Atul Gupta '88 [Nov. 14]

* Trustee
* Runs big consulting company in Des Moines
* Very outspoken about why Grinnell students come to work with the
  wrong attitude
* In person
* [Walker students here]
* Hosts: Jennelle and Erik

Heather Whisenhunt '08 [Nov. 21]

* At HP.  Well-established tech company.
* Sideways mobility
* Hosts: Shaun and Kuestin

Erik Hanson '98 (unconfirmed) [Dec. 5]

* In person
* [Walker students here]
* Hosts: Spencer and Shawn

Maybe one more [Dec. 12]

* Hosts: Jordan and Shaun
* [Walker students here]

A strategy for hosting alums
----------------------------

* Send early email (ideally two weeks in advance)
* Identify/obtain/negotiate
    * Short biography (usually about current job)
    * Topic for the alum to discuss/focus on.  For example, 2 of the 3
        * 20 or so "Here's my life story"
	* 20 or so focused "Here's something important I know that you should know, too"
	* 20 or so focused "Here's what we do when hiring"/"Here's what we look for in resumes"/"Here's how I formed a network"
    * Other activities/readings
* Be ready to provide additional information
    * What kinds of things the class has heard about
    * What kinds of things the class wants to hear about
    * ...

Help for the hosts: What do *you* want out of this course (from the alums)?

* Obvious, but not likely: A job or internship
* Not so obvious, but possible: A mentor

* A good sense of how to start a career path, particularly since we don't
  know much when we're starting out.
* Learn from their mistakes. 
  * (I want to know how you screwed up so that I don't screw up in the same way.) 
  * ("We know many people hit stumbling blocks and learn from them, so please share yours if you are comfortable doing so.")
* What skills are useful in your industry?
* What kinds of things should I be doing outside of class?
* Mentorship-style advice.  When you mentor people, what kind of advice 
  do you give?  What have you learned from your mentors?
* What's it like working at your company?

Other course details
--------------------

* Please encourage more students to show up (and maybe to register).
  Make it worth my (uncompensated) time.

Resume review
-------------

* Things we debated (which have been phrased as questions for alums)
    * What are your thoughts on GPA?  What if it's high?
    * When someone says that they are "proficient" in a programming 
      language, what do you expect?
    * What links, if any, do you follow?
